# Fruits-decay-detection-and-maturity-prediction-using-ML
Intelligent agriculture has attracted more and more attention around the world. Fruit harvesting robots are being rapidly developed due to their enormous potential efficiency. The first critical step for harvesting robots is detecting fruits autonomously. However, it is very difficult to develop a vision system that is as intelligent as humans for fruit detection. There are many reasons, such as uneven illumination, non-structural fields, occlusion, and other unpredictable factors. Agriculture is very important and essential for humans because they directly depend on it for food production. Fruits are typically bought by every household and rich in nourishment; thus, it is required a continuous supply and production to satisfy the demand of the growing world population. For this reason, the entire agri-food sector chain experiences increasing challenges, which require it to apply for new innovative technologies in order to improve its productivity. Computer vision is one of the most used technological tools in the agro-industrial field, both in automatic fruit harvesting, fruit sorting machines, and fruit scanning in supermarkets. All vision systems typically include different types of data generated by sensors or cameras. Fruit spoilage has significant ramifications on economic activities, it is estimated that nearly a third of fruit costs go to decaying matters. Besides, the sale of fruits will be impacted as it is in consumer’s perception that spoiled fruits are detrimental to health. In our project, we design a system that detects the damage or decay in fruits or vegetables and also it predicts the maturity of the same like, harvesting time, etc... But here we use Machine learning. Basically, this system will be helpful for youngsters or new generation farmers who step into the field of agriculture. They won't be aware of the harvesting time and all other things. And this system will also be helpful for fruit sellers. We develop the system as a device and the condition regarding the state of fruit or vegetable is indicated on the LED display. Hence the condition of fruit is displayed in the monitor and the damage regarding fruit is identified.  This system will be more helpful for farmers and in agricultural farms, As the damage and decay of fruit is their prior consideration to impress the customer and to make a good trade relation.
